Filename: xxx-direct-onion.txt
Title: Direct Onion Services
Author: John Brooks, Paul Syverson, Roger Dingledine
Created: 2015-07-13
Status: Draft

1. Overview

   Direct onion services are a modified form of onion services, which trade
   service-side location privacy for improved performance, reliability, and
   scalability.

   Direct onion services have a .onion address identical to any other onion
   service. After fetching the descriptor, a client can reach the service by
   extending a circuit to the relay specified in the descriptor and opening
   a stream for that onion address. The introduction point and rendezvous
   protocols are bypassed for these services.

   We also specify behavior for a tor instance to publish a direct onion
   service, which requires a reachable OR port, without acting as a relay
   in the network.

2. Motivation

   Direct onion services have a few benefits over other onion services:

      * Connection latency is much lower by skipping rendezvous
      * Stream latency is reduced on a 4-hop circuit
      * Removing rendezvous circuits improves service scalability
      * A direct onion service can use multiple relays for load balancing

   Direct onion services are not location hidden on the service side, but
   clients retain all of the benefits and privacy of onion services.

   We believe these improvements, along with the other benefits of onion
   services, will be a significant incentive for website and other internet
   service operators to provide these portals to preserve the privacy of their
   users.

3. Onion descriptors

   The onion descriptor format is extended to add:

     "direct-service-relays" NL encrypted-string
       [At most once]

       A list of relay extend info, which is used instead of introduction
       points and rendezvous for direct onion services. This field is
       encoded and optionally encrypted in the same way as the
       "introduction-points" field.

       The encoded contents of this field contains no more than 10 entries,
       each containing the following data:

         "direct-service-relay" SP link-specifiers NL
            [At start, exactly once]
            link-specifiers is a base64 encoded link specifier block, in
            the format described by proposal 224 [BUILDING-BLOCKS] and the
            EXTEND2 cell.

          "onion-key" SP key-type NL onion-key
            [Exactly once]
            Describes the onion key that must be used when extending to the
            direct onion service relay.

            The key-type field is one of:
               "tap"
                  onion-key is a PEM-encoded RSA relay onion key
               "ntor"
                  onion-key is a base64-encoded NTOR relay onion key

   [XXX: Should there be some kind of cookie to prove that we have the desc?
   See also section 7.1. -special]

   A descriptor may contain either or both of "introduction-points" and
   "direct-service-relays".

   [XXX: What kind of backwards compatibility issues exist here? Will existing
   relays accept one of those descriptors? -special]

4. Reaching a direct onion service as a client

   Direct onion services use standard onion hostnames, so the client will
   first request the service's descriptor. If the descriptor contains a
   "direct-service-relays" field, the client should ignore the introduction
   points and rendezvous process in favor of the process defined here.

   The descriptor's "direct-service-relay" information is sufficient for a
   client to extend a circuit to the relay, regardless of whether this relay
   is listed in the network consensus. This relay info must not be used for
   any other purpose. If multiple direct service relays are specified, the
   client should randomly select one.

   The client uses a 3-hop circuit to extend to the service relay from the
   descriptor. Once this circuit is built, the client sends a BEGIN cell to
   the relay, with the onion address as hostname and the desired TCP port.

   If the circuit or stream fails, the client should retry using another
   direct service relay from the descriptor.

5. Publishing a direct onion service

   To act as a direct onion service, a tor instance (or cooperating group)
   must:

      * Have a publicly accessible OR port
      * Publish onion descriptors in the same manner as a onion service
      * Include a "direct-onion-relays" section in the onion descriptor
      * Accept RELAY_BEGIN cells as defined in section 5.3

5.1. Configuration options

   The tor server operating a direct onion service must accept connections as
   a tor relay, but is not required to be published in the consensus or to
   allow extending circuits. To allow this, we propose the following
   configuration option:

      RelayAllowExtend 0|1
         If set, allow clients to extend circuits from this relay. Otherwise,
         refuse all extend cells. PublishServerDescriptor must also be disabled
         if this option is disabled. If ExitRelay is also disabled, this relay
         will not pass through any traffic.

   We also propose the following configuration options to control direct
   onion services:

      [XXX: Define the config options for direct onions -special]

5.2. Publishing descriptors

   A direct onion service must publish descriptors in the same manner as an
   onion service, as defined by rend-spec.

   Optionally, a set of introduction points may be included in the descriptor
   to provide backwards compatibility with clients that don't support direct
   onion services.

5.3. RELAY_BEGIN

   When a RELAY_BEGIN cell is received with a configured direct onion hostname
   as a destination, the stream should be connected to the configured backend
   server in the same manner as a service-side rendezvous stream.

   All relays must reject any RELAY_BEGIN cell with an address ending in
   ".onion" that does not match a locally configured direct onion service.

6. Other considerations

6.1. Load balancing

   High capacity services can distribute load by including multiple entries
   in the direct-service-relays section of the descriptor, or by publishing
   several descriptors to different hidden service directories, or by a
   combination of these methods.

6.2. Benefits of also running a Tor relay

   If a direct onion service also acts as a published tor relay, it will keep
   connections to many other tor relays. This can significantly reduce the
   latency of connections to the direct onion service, and also helps the tor
   network.

6.3. Proposal 224 ("Next-Generation Hidden Services")

   This proposal is compatible with proposal 224, with small changes to the
   service descriptor format. In particular:

   The "direct-service-relay" sections are included in the encrypted portion
   of the descriptor, adjacent to any "introduction-point" sections. The
   "direct-service-relays" field is no longer present. An onion service is also
   direct onion service if any "direct-service-relay" field is present.

6.4. Proposal 246 ("Merging Hidden Service Directories and Intro Points")

   This proposal is compatible with proposal 246. The direct onion service
   will publish its descriptor to the introduction points in the same manner
   as any other onion service. The client may choose to build a circuit to the
   specified relays, or to continue with the rendezvous protocol.

   The client should not extend from the introduction point to the direct onion
   service's relay, to avoid overloading the introduction point. The client
   may truncate the circuit and extend through a new relay.

7. Discussion

7.1. Authorization

   Client authorization for a direct onion service is possible through
   encryption of the direct-service-relays section in the descriptor, or
   "stealth" publication under a new onion address, as with traditional
   onion services.

   One problem with this is that if you suspect a relay is also serving a
   direct onion service, you can connect to it and send RELAY_BEGIN without
   any further authorization. To prevent this, we would need to include a
   cookie from the descriptor in the RELAY_BEGIN information.

7.2. Preventing relays from being unintentionally published

   Many direct onion relays will not want to relay other traffic, and will
   set 'PublishServerDescriptor 0' to prevent it. Even when they do, they will
   still generate a relay descriptor, which could be downloaded and published
   to a directory authority without the relay's consent. To preven this, we
   should insert a field in the relay descriptor when PublishServerDescriptor
   is disabled that instructs relays to never include it as part of a
   consensus.

   [XXX: Also see task #16564]

7.3. Ephemeral direct onion services (ADD_ONION)

   The ADD_ONION control port command could be extended to support ephemerally
   configured direct onion services. We encourage this, but specifying its
   behavior is out of the scope of this proposal.
